Jerald Sheetsjerald.sheets@gmail.com   |  (423) 589-7111  |  Charleston, TNPortfolio: https://github.com/cvquestyLinkedIn: https://www.linkedin.com/in/JeraldSheets
Website: https://questy.orgWORK EXPERIENCEOak Ridge National LaboratoryMar. 2023 Ð PresentSr. Linux Systems Administrator - Puppet Automation								Remote* Maintain ORNL Digital Active Archive (DAAC) system for NASA run projects.Archive and present biogeochemical data to NASA, NOAA, and other governmental entities* Straight Systems Architecture and Administration, automation with Puppet Community.Manage and maintain highly available environment of RHEL-based data systems for government* Develop documentation, best practices and training materials, and lead a team of 4 engineers.Penacity, LLCMar. 2022 Ð Mar. 2023Sr. Automation Solutions ArchitectRemote ContractPerform architectural design and implementation of Puppet Enterprise in on-premises and AWS environments
both for U.S. Government clients and the corporate office. Act as SME for all Puppet Configuration
Management tools and methods, Automation, CI/CD, and development in regard to Puppet.* As the Puppet SME, I worked closely with the USDA staff and management to implement new environments,
develop new installation modules, and to maintain operational efficiency of the Automation Environmento Performed Puppet upgrades, development, and training to increase customer engagement and abilitieso Worked with USDA team to troubleshoot and implement new environments automated with Puppet.PayPal, Inc.
Aug. 2016 Ð Mar 2022Sr. Continuous Security Strategist - Puppet AutomationRemote* Lead and manage Information Security automation initiatives with Puppet Configuration Management
tools and methods.o Built Continuous Security CI/CD Pipeline DevOps workflows with Jenkins, Puppet, Docker, and GitHubo Automate entire provisioning framework with Puppet from "Golden Image" to production.* Cloud Technologies - Automate key PayPal security processes in AWS and Google Cloud, delivering
containerized and traditional architectures.Shadow-Soft
Jan. 2014 Ð Aug. 2016Sr. Puppet and Solutions ArchitectRemote/Traveling Consultant* Nationwide Travel Consultant implementing Puppet Enterprise for corporate customers as a Puppet Labs Partner
Consulting Engineer* Conference Speaking, Social Media Presence, and blogging on behalf of the Puppet ecosystem for Shadow-Soft* Lead team of 4 consultants, train and equip for Puppet Labs engagements nationwideAccelarad/Nuance
July 2013 Ð Jan. 2014Sr. Linux Systems ArchitectAtlanta, GA, Remote* Main Linux Systems Architect for entire Accelarad fleet. Team leader and implementation specialist
for Radiology SAAS Solution.Apple, Inc
July 2011 - July 2013Sr. UNIX Systems EngineerMaiden, NC* Systems Architecture, Engineering, and Administration for all Apple Stores worldwide. Performed New
Store Openings, trained staff, and organized entire "go live" for in-store POS servers and equipmentIncomm, Inc.
Nov. 2010 - July 2011Sr. Linux Systems Administrator - ContractAtlanta, GA* Systems Administrator for prepaid card industry leader. Inventory management, provisioning (kickstart)
and holiday 24-hour observability rotation.Intercontinental Hotels Group
Aug. 2010 - Oct. 2010Sr. Technology ConsultantAtlanta, GA* Staff augmentation for various expansion projects and engineering needs. Build Asset Inventory system,
procure hardware and network equipment and bring RedHat systems within hardening compliance guidelines.CNN News Systems
Oct. 2008 - Aug. 2010Sr. Systems EngineerAtlanta, GA* Responsible for CNN video library and Tape archival system. Sun StorageTek SL 8500 systems, Sun Solaris,
RedHat Linux, and data center management. * Upgrade of entire serving infrastructure,  decommission old hardware, and excess old equipment* Manage and maintain RedHat Linux platform machines, program in Perl and BASH, and support development
teams and leadership.The Weather Channel Interactive
Jun. 2005 - Oct. 2008Sr. Linux Systems AdministratorAtlanta, GA* Daily maintenance and configuration of web serving infrastructure for what was at the tie the 7th most
visited website in the world by traffic. Utilized SuSE 9 & 10 and a combination of the Apache Web Server
and Tomcat Servlet container to for hosting. Troubleshoot and introspect the JVM Virtual Machine with Java
tools and monitoring products, providing guidance to development as to changes to resolve various issues with
the platform.EDUCATION	Evangel University
Springfield, MO
CurrentMaster of Arts - Theological StudiesSt. Stephen's University
St. Stephen, NB CA
Mar. 2008 - Apr. 2016Bachelor of Arts - Christian Studies - GraduatedLouisiana State University
Baton Rouge, LA
Aug. 1985-Dec. 1988, Jun. 1995 - May. 1996Bachelor of Science - Music Education - 60 HoursCERTIFICATIONS, SKILLS & INTERESTS * Certifications: Puppet Certified Professional (2014, 2018, 2019) * RHCE/RHCSA/RHSH (2014) * Telcordia PRO-INS* Technologies: DevOps, Consulting, Linux/UNIX, AWS, GCP, Puppet, Git, RSPEC, Serverspec, BASH, Perl* Skills Team Leadership, Automation, Infrastructure Development, Training, Documentation, Presenting, Speaking* Interests: HAM Radio (KO4JIL), Music, Open-Source Contribution, Hiking, Training, Public Speaking* Writing: Author: "Scaling Puppet Community", "Kickstarting Linux Client Installs", "Making Open Webmail Work", Technical Reviewer: "Puppet 8 for DevOps Engineers"