JERALD M. SHEETS, JR9199 Saddlebrook WayDouglasville, GA 30135jerald.sheets@gmail.comSenior Linux Systems Administrator/ArchitectProfile:Talented Linux Systems Administrator with seventeen years progressively responsible IT experience. Linux systems and workstation optimization, Puppet Configuration Management consulting and Training.Experience:Shadow-Soft – Atlanta, GASr. Puppet and Solutions Architect – Consultant – 1/2014 – PresentTeam Lead – Puppet Configuration Management ConsultingDuties: Perform professional engagements with clients nationwide on behalf of PuppetLabs.  Execute PE Bootstraps, pair module programming, consultation, and engineering.  RedHat Professional Services engagements and consultations.* Developed, Puppet module library for use/reuse with customer base on bootstrap engagements.* Blog instructionally on Puppet topics and for Corporate web presence on DEVOPS topics and methodologies.* Train and develop new team members on Puppet consulting and Engineering engagements.Accelarad, Inc. – Atlanta, GASr. Linux Systems Architect – IT Operations – 7/2013 – 1/2014Senior Linux team member for Accelarad Atlanta HeadquartersDuties: Straight Systems architecture and administration for SAAS Radiology provider in the Atlanta market.  Provisioning, Puppet configuration management, all architectural design and implementation. * Designed, developed, and implemented primary monitoring solution for all hosts, applications, and networking infrastructure.* Conceived, designed, installed and implemented Puppet configuration management system with Passenger and MCollective as well as developed and implemented all modules and manifests.* Conceived, designed, developed, and implemented cohesive provisioning system with transparent configuration management handoff.Apple, Inc. – Maiden, NCSr. UNIX Systems Administrator – GCS Retail – 7/2011 – 6/2013Retail Systems Engineer for worldwide Apple Retail ChainDuties: Perform systems administration, architecture, and engineering tasks for Apple retail stores worldwide to include OSX Server and RHEL 6.2 systems.  Provisioning of Mac Pro and Linux systems as POS Production systems in retail stores, troubleshooting various issues in-store as they arise, and working with store staff to resolve issues..* Upgraded all retail stores worldwide from OSX Server 10.5.8 to 10.6.5, deploying new Netboot imaging servers to all retail stores and updating all system images to the latest levels certified by POS Team.  Developed Perl “glue” code to automate the procedure from data center servers.* Performed New Store Openings for the 2011/2012 season, executing GCS Retail tasks on an aggressive timeline for opening day. with Retail groups, coordinating across IS&T, GNS, and other groups as necessary.* Architected, developed and deployed Puppet Configuration management system for systems throughout the retail chain worldwide.Incomm, Inc. – Atlanta, GASr. Linux Systems Administrator – Operations Group – 11/2010 – 7/2011Industry leader marketer, distributor, and technology innovator of stored-value gift and prepaid products.Duties: Systems administrator and technologist for online pre-paid serving infrastructure at company headquarters in Atlanta, GA.  Straight administration and project architecture including full hardware procurement responsibilities, team interaction to guide technical project requirements, servicing of project requirements, and internal business tool creation and administration.  Commodity hardware, virtual machines and automated load (Kickstart) environment management.  “War room” duties during peak times for incident response.* Compiled new inventory system for team, built inventory management system, and populated with asset information.* Managed Kickstart environment (plus PXE) and stand up servers very quickly on an as-needed basis.Intercontinental Hotels Group – Atlanta, GASr. Technology Consultant – Contractor, Principle Solutions Group – 8/2010 – 10/2010The world’s largest Hotels group with over 650,000 rooms over 4500 hotels in 100 countries Internet web presence.  Duties:  Work on company projects on an “as assigned” basis.  Projects include Terracotta, Perl scripting, inventory and asset management, and ActiveMQ.  System procurement, implementation, provisioning and deployment including RedHat Enterprise Linux Server 5, HP’s XP24000 storage array.Key Contributions:* Researched, ordered, installed Terracotta & Ehcache system to be leveraged across all production RedHat and Solaris based serving environments.* Provide research and reporting on Puppet configuration Management system, Xymon monitoring system, and implementing Hyperic clients throughout the environment.CNN News Systems – Atlanta, GASenior Systems Engineer – CNN BEST – 10/2008 – 8/2010Cable Television’s premier news source, CNN’s newsroom systems support team.  The largest newsgathering, storage, and retrieval infrastructure in the Television News industry.Duties:  Primarily responsible for maintenance, configuration, and development of the CNN Library archive.  This includes the Sun StorageTek SL8500 Library and the Quantum StorNext Filesystem and supporting RHEL 5.2-5.4 and Solaris 10 systems.  Basic Administration duties, design and implementation of new systems and technologies, systems programming in Perl, and storage administration for the Digital Archive.  Kickstart server installation and configuration, and LDAP implementation and management.Key Contributions:* Transitioned entire digital media archive over to newly created group’s data center, architected and migrated authentication and monitoring as well as deployed client support at the host level throughout the environment without downtime and under budget.* Managed downtimes, hardware and software upgrades, team coordination of serving software patches and builds.* Performed on-call duties on a bi-weekly basis throughout my tenure at CNN, covering 24x7 call without an operations group or Network Operations Center to triage issues.The Weather Channel Interactive – Atlanta, GASenior Linux Systems Administrator – Operations – 06/2005 – 10/2008Cable television’s The Weather Channel’s web-facing Internet presence.  The largest non-portal website in the world, serving tens of millions of unique visitors dailyDuties:  Responsible for the daily maintenance and configuration of the Apache web server, Tomcat servlet container, and SuSE 9 & 10 Linux platform.  Optimization and performance tuning of the Sun JVM, memory profiling, and enhanced configuration management in an extremely fast-paced mission critical Internet environment. Implemented VMWare server environment for development and testing systems.Key Contributions:* Worked closely with development team to troubleshoot software issues relating to the server OS and the software build process and environment.* Performed weekly and bi-weekly software build deployments, site restarts, and deployment issue troubleshooting.* Built and deployed new build environments for new product assets throughout live site with no downtime and easy failover.* Increased serving speed by as much as 30% in some systems by performance tuning of the Sun Java Virtual Machine.* Researched and deployed incremental upgrades for Apache, Tomcat, and the mod_jk connector, compiling each with custom settings to maximize systems efficiency to serve 30-50 million unique page views per day escalating as high as 90 million during special weather events.McKesson, Inc. - Atlanta, GASenior UNIX/Linux Systems Administrator – TSG -12/2004 – 06/2005Fortune 16 Pharmaceutical Company specializing in medication delivery hardware and software.  Install base throughout the U.S. and abroad in the healthcare industry, built on HP-UX, AIX5L, and RedHat Linux.Duties:  Defined, designed, and implemented UNIX software and solutions. Proposed and implemented system enhancements (software and hardware updates) that improved the performance and reliability of the customer UNIX systems. Managed load configuration of UNIX Systems, performed telephone support and triage of installed customer systems, and routed calls to appropriate parties when not directly UNIX Administration related.Datatrac, Inc. - Atlanta, GASr. UNIX/Linux Systems Administrator, Techops - 5/2004 to 11/2004Transportation Industry player serving several thousand users, both web hosted and installed across the continental United States. Custom Software suite built on AIX, RedHat Linux, and SCO OpenServer.Duties:  Manage farm of installed AIX, SCO, and RedHat Linux systems (8.x, 9.x, ES3) for an installed user base of over 10,000 customers. Both web hosted and installed user base serving the transportation industry with package shipping, tracking, GPS, and wireless notification systems. Installation of AIX, RedHat Linux, and migration from SCO to one of the other platforms supported. Managed, installed Legato Backup systems, Backup Edge, and AIX mksysb management. Installation and maintenance of Big Brother Network Monitor, both Professional and "Better than Free" versions. Responsible for disaster recovery, internal systems security, log monitoring and systems surveys and administration.Key Contributions:* Tackled disarray of the monitoring system and revamped entire configuration hierarchy. Installed larrd and ntop monitoring, and began to locate errant processes, and offloaded resource hogs to new systems.* Developed migration and testing plan for wholesale migration of our application development process onto RedHat Enterprise Server 3.* Produced instructional documentation for upper management to inform and encourage a direction in preparing for SCO decommissioning and subsequent customer migrations to new platforms.Our Lady of the Lake Regional Medical Center – Baton Rouge, LASr. AIX Systems Administrator, IT Department – 5/2001 to 4/2004Large regional hospital serving a 13 Parish area in Southern Louisiana utilizing the latest in healthcare ERP software such as Cerner and Lawson financials.Duties:  Manage large network of enterprise class IBM RS/6000 servers serving over 5,000 users.  Implemented Linux servers for DNS and Web tasks, Managed Tivoli Storage Manager, IBM 3494 Tape library, and ESS/SSA Disk storage subsystems.  Key Contributions:* Implemented Tomcat server for Lawson Financials system on AIX.  Installed web-monitoring tools for Lawson.* Migrated all DNS servers to RedHat Linux appliances to offload non-application related services to outboard gear and centralize primary server management.* Upgraded from ADSM 3.1 to Tivoli 4.2 enterprise wide, coordinated multi-team effort in replacing all client code, rewriting scripts to conform to new version, and generated post-mortem for management review.* Wrote and deployed Systems Management scripts enterprise wide to monitor all UNIX servers, Tivoli Storage Manager, and notify the Systems administration team of system anomalies.Thomson Financial – Rockville, MarylandSr. UNIX Systems Administrator, IT Department – 2/01 – 5/01World Headquarters of Thomson Financial housing over 200 online systems and 50 internal systems utilizing Solaris, SCO Open Server, RedHat Linux, and HP/UX.Duties:  Managed and supported large network of a large array of UNIX servers providing E-Commerce, Financial management, and Education scheduling and planning.Key Contributions:* Implemented wide scale usage of Open Source tools for development teams for online E-commerce applications.* Evaluated Systems Monitoring Software and implemented various projects for evaluation by management and coworkers.3Com Corporation – Vienna, VirginiaSr. Systems Engineer, CSO Field Services – 3/00 – 2/01Resident Engineer onsite at Sprint IP Dial services supporting the largest IP network in the U.S. supporting 3Com’s total Control Chassis, Solaris management servers, and a large network of Cisco infrastructure.Duties:  Directly interfaced with Sprint IP Dial management supporting the 3Com Total Control hardware, the Solaris-based Total Control Management software, and 3Com/Cisco network interfacing.Key Contributions:* Discovered large network bandwidth killer and made recommendations to alleviate the large utilization numbers that were being observed.* Helped Sprint Security find and eliminate DDOS attacks on their network through use of standard network management utilities, and TCP/IP suite tools.* Designed, Programmed, and Implemented PHP-based ticket/issue management system and built automatic report-generating piece to satisfy Sprint contract requirements.Education & Training:RedHat RHCSA TrainingAtlanta, GA1 Week InstructionPuppet FundamentalsAtlanta, GA3 Days InstructionSun StorageTek Library AdministrationDenver, Colorado1 Week InstructionQuantum StorNext AdministrationDenver, Colorado2 Weeks InstructionIBM AIX Basic & Advanced Administration Cleveland, Ohio2 Weeks InstructionTivoli Storage Manager Basic and Advanced Administration for AIXAnd Disaster Recovery ManagerPhoenix, AZ1 Week Instruction Each, 2-Days for DRMRedHat RHCE TrainingAtlanta, GA1 Week InstructionPuppet AdvancedAtlanta, GA3 Days InstructionTribute, Inc AIX AdministrationHudson, Ohio2-Day Administration SeminarVeritas Volume Manager & Cluster ManagerCerner Corporation, Kansas City, MOInternational Technical Institute, Baton Rouge, Louisiana 70816Graduated:  May, 1991 2nd in class.				3Com CSO Boot Camp3Com Worldwide Education ProgramLouisiana State University, Baton Rouge, Louisiana 70802Attended:  August 1985 to December 1987January 1989 to December 1989May 1995 to May 1996Computer Expertise:* RHCE/RHCSA/RHSH #140-046-236* VMWare Server, ESX/i and Fusion, VirtualBox, Parallels, and Xen Virtualization Technologies* Perl, Shell, Unix Utilities (awk, sed, expect)* Oracle, MySQL, PostgreSQL* SMTP, POP, DNS, FTP, HTTP, SNMP, SSH, IMAP, NFS, and LDAP* Firewalls, Intrusion Detection, Proxy Servers, Security Analysis* Network Monitoring with OSS tools such as XyMon, Nagios, ZenOSS, Nmap, and Ntop* AIX – 10 years, Linux – 16 years (RHEL, SuSE, Ubuntu, Slackware), BSD – 8 yearsOf Note:Chairman of the Board, CorpsVets, Inc. http://www.corpsvets.orgOwner/Operator of home-based PC & Linux Small-Business Server Consulting Company.Staff Author – Linux.com (OSDN Network)   - “Kickstarting Linux Client Installs, Internet Website: http://www.linux.com/archive/feature/113526, 2003   - “Making Open Webmail Work”, Internet Website: http://www.linux.com/archive/feed/33550, 2004